[REG-1293] Update Agent Builder documentation for Unity SDK (#39)
Regression-Games/RegressionDocs: docs/studios/unity/unity-sdk/creating-bots/javascript/agent-builder.mdx

---
sidebar_label: 'Agent Builder'
---

import BehaviorTree from '../../../../../common/agent-builder/_behavior-trees.md'
import LoadingYourTree from '../../../../../common/agent-builder/_loading-your-tree.mdx'
import AddingNodes from '../../../../../common/agent-builder/_adding-nodes.mdx'
import SavingYourTree from '../../../../../common/agent-builder/_saving-your-tree.mdx'

# Creating AIs Using the Agent Builder

Regression Games' Agent Builder is an easy-to-use visual editor for constructing AI behavior trees.

> Our editor utilizes large language models like [OpenAI's GPT-4](https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt) to write code for you.

Author: I like your suggestion - made some tweaks to it but the flow should be similar

This makes the Agent Builder an excellent tool for writing bots as you familiarize yourself with your project's SDK integration.

:::note

> This tool is early in development - it is prone to change and may contain bugs.
> Please report issues and feature requests for the Agent Builder [here](https://regression-games.sleekplan.app/feedback).

Reviewer: One thing I've learned from writing docs is to avoid writing content you **know** will change over time, if you *can* avoid it. 

Also "here" links are less accessible, as screen readers don't do a great job of describing them. It's better to give the link text that is specific to where the link goes, rather than relying on previous context in the sentence or paragraph.
 
So maybe rephrase this as:

```suggestion
We're constantly working to improve Agent Builder. You can report issues and submit feature requests on our [Feedback Site](https://regression-games.sleekplan.app/feedback).
```

Author: Updated!

:::

#### Bot Configuration

Click the "Bot Settings" button in the Agent Builder interface to access a range of important settings for your bot.
See the [Bot Configuration section](./configuration) for information on each setting and how it affects bot startup and teardown.
Bot configurations are applied at runtime before the first game-tick your tree is executed.

![Bot Settings](../../../../../common/agent-builder/img/bot-settings-button.png)
![Bot Configuration](../../../../../common/agent-builder/img/bot-configuration-tab.png)

#### Saving Your Unity Context

From the Unity Editor, expand the "Regression Games" menu and select "Agent Builder > Extract Data".
This will save your Unity Context as a .zip to your top-level project directory.

![Extract Game Context](../../../../../common/agent-builder/img/extract-game-context.png)

In the Agent Builder, click the "Bot Settings" button, then select the .zip from the "Upload Generated Game Context" tab.

![Upload Game Context](../../../../../common/agent-builder/img/upload-game-context.png)

### Adding Nodes

<AddingNodes />

### Generating Code

:::note

> All samples in this section are written in Typescript, which is the only language currently supported by the Agent Builder.
> If you'd like to see support for other languages, like C#, let us know [here](https://regression-games.sleekplan.app/feedback).

Reviewer: To my point above, we don't know if/when C# support will land. And while we certainly should update the docs when it does, it's easiest to just describe the situation now rather than predicting the future. We are, and always will be, "constantly evaluating support for other languages".

```suggestion
All samples in this section are written in TypeScript.
We're constantly evaluating support for other languages. Feel free to request others on our [Feedback Site](https://regression-games.sleekplan.app/feedback)!.
```

Author: Updated! I believe Sleekplan has a public roadmap feature. I don't think we're currently using it, but it could be really helpful for simplifying our documentation. ex. "See our roadmap for language support" (@vontell)

Reviewer: That's a great way to do this. Centralizing where we talk about the future makes it easier to ensure we keep it relatively up-to-date :). My main concern is having lots of different docs referencing future features that may or may not actually exist at the time the reader is looking at the page.

:::

The nodes in your tree won't be useful until you give them some logic to execute.
Click on a leaf node to open the side-panel. You'll see the following stub provided in the code editor:

```javascript
class LeafNode extends TreeNode {
  public override async execute(rg): Promise<NodeStatus> {
    return NodeStatus.SUCCESS;
  }
}
```

:::info
All of your node's code must be defined within the `LeafNode` class, and the `execute` method must be defined as your entrypoint into the node.
You may encounter errors loading your AI into a game if these are not properly defined when you save your tree.
:::

> You can either manually type code into the editor (see the [PlayTest Bots API](./playtest-bots)), or you can have GPT do the heavy lifting for you.

Author: Updated all references to GPT so they're now some permutation of "AI code assistant"

```

then GPT should output code similar to this:
```typescript
class LeafNode extends TreeNode {
  public override async execute(rg): Promise<NodeStatus> {
    const bot = rg.getBot();
    const enemy = await rg.findNearestEntity("Enemy", bot.position, (entity) => {
      return rg.MathFunctions.distanceSq(bot.position, entity.position) <= 10;
    });

    if (enemy) {
      rg.performAction("ApproachEntity", { targetId: enemy.id });
      this.setData("enemy", enemy);
      return NodeStatus.SUCCESS;
    }

    return NodeStatus.FAILURE;
  }
}
```

We can then enter another prompt in a separate node to complete our goal:
```text
Attack the stored enemy
```
```typescript
class LeafNode extends TreeNode {
  public override async execute(rg): Promise<NodeStatus> {
    const enemy = this.getData<RGEnemyState>("enemy");
    if (!enemy) {
      return NodeStatus.FAILURE;
    }
    rg.performAction("AttackEntity", { targetId: enemy.id });
    return NodeStatus.SUCCESS;
  }
}
```

The above outputs are good examples of how properly-formatted code should look when you're finished generating or writing it.

You may notice that these examples invoke the `getData` and `setData` methods.

> These can be used to share data between nodes, and it's a good practice to specify a data type for `getData` to take advantage of the editor's Intellisense.
> 
> :::note
> Classes to represent available state variables for entities are coming soon
> :::

Reviewer: Looking at the code, I think this is a little more accurate (I noticed that the data appears to be shared across ticks too and that was initially surprising to me, but I think it's useful):

```suggestion
These can be used to share data between nodes and across each tick of your bot.

:::note
We recommend you specify a data type in `getData` so you can take full advantage of autocomplete in the editor.
:::
```

And again, no need for a "Coming Soon" here I think. We don't know when "soon" is, and when "soon" does come, it'd be better if we don't have to update this note.

Author: This is the only comment that I disagree with. I think it's going to be very confusing for someone to read "make sure you specify a type!" in the docs when the relevant types don't exist yet. We need some indication that we recommend the use of types where they _can_ be applied, but that we're still working on implementing types to represent your states and actions

Author: Maybe "under development" is a better phrase since you're right that we don't know how _soon_ "soon" is

Reviewer: > I think it's going to be very confusing for someone to read "make sure you specify a type!" in the docs when the relevant types don't exist yet.

A very fair point, though perhaps one that argues for just omitting the "make sure you specify a type" comment until we actually have the type infrastructure in place?

Either way, I'm OK with it. I'm certainly not significantly opposed to referencing future work. I think in a previous iteration (before I saved the comment) I had something like this:

```suggestion
These can be used to share data between nodes and across each tick of your bot.

:::note
We recommend you specify a data type in `getData` so you can take full advantage of autocomplete in the editor. The types available in the editor are limited, but we're continually adding more!
:::
```

For instance:

```typescript
// you can define and retrieve your own key-value pairs
this.setData("myString", "Hello World");
const myString = this.getData<string>("myString");

this.setData("myBool", true);
const myBool = this.getData<boolean>("myBool");
```

Whenever you submit a prompt to GPT, we supplement it with context about your game's available actions and state attributes as well as our bot API.
However, large language models like GPT are still in their infancy and may output code that doesn't follow our expected format, or code that functions differently in-game than your prompt intends.
You may need to alter your prompt and re-submit it for new output when this happens, or you can fix the output manually.

### Validating Code

> The embedded code editor offers standard syntax highlighting and Intellisense features for Regressions Games APIs.

Reviewer 2: Less brand specifics may be nice

```suggestion
The embedded code editor offers standard syntax highlighting and intelligent code completion features for Regressions Games APIs.
```

Author: Updated
